<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-GB">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch054.xhtml</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="final-words" class="level1" data-number="34">
<h1 data-number="34"><span class="header-section-number">34</span> Final words</h1>
<p>Congratulations, you reached the end of the book! I hope you learned something you didn’t know before and perhaps even had a few “aha” moments. Although this is the end of the book, it’s just the beginning of your journey.</p>
<p>The best way to continue your learning journey is to go out in the world and design, build and maintain large-scale systems. Some of the best-paid jobs in the industry involve building such systems, and there is no shortage of demand. The second-best way is by reading industry papers, which provide a wealth of knowledge about distributed systems that have stood the test of time. And after reading this book, these papers should be accessible to you.</p>
<p>For example, you could start with “Windows Azure Storage: A Highly Available Cloud Storage Service with Strong Consistency”<a href="#fn1" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref1" epub:type="noteref">1</a>, which describes Azure’s cloud storage system. Azure’s cloud storage is the core building block on top of which Microsoft built many other successful products. One of the key design decisions was to guarantee strong consistency, making the application developers’ job much easier. I like this paper a lot because it touches upon many of the concepts discussed in this book.</p>
<p>Once you have digested the Azure storage paper, I suggest reading “Azure Data Explorer: a big data analytics cloud platform optimized for interactive, ad-hoc queries over structured, semi-structured and unstructured data”<a href="#fn2" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref2" epub:type="noteref">2</a>. This paper discusses the implementation of a cloud-native event store built on top of Azure’s cloud storage — a great example of how these large-scale systems compose on top of each other.</p>
<p>If any concept is new to you or unclear, follow your curiosity down the rabbit hole by exploring referenced papers.<a href="#fn3" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref3" epub:type="noteref">3</a>. As a bonus exercise, this book is sprinkled with great papers and references. Read them all to complete all the side quests!</p>
<p>In terms of book recommendations, Martin Kleppman’s “Designing Data-Intensive Applications”<a href="#fn4" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref4" epub:type="noteref">4</a> is a must-read. The book describes the pros and cons of various technologies for processing and storing data. Also, for some more high-level case studies, check out Alex Xu’s “System Design Interview”<a href="#fn5" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref5" epub:type="noteref">5</a> — it’s a good read even if you aren’t preparing for interviews.</p>
<p>As no book is ever perfect, I’m always happy to receive feedback. So if you have found an error, have an idea for improvement, or simply want to comment on something, always feel free to write me<a href="#fn6" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref6" epub:type="noteref">6</a>. I love connecting with readers.</p>
<p>Finally, please consider leaving a review on Goodreads or Amazon if you liked the book. It makes all the difference to prospective readers.</p>
<!--chapter:end:markdown/Conclusion.Rmd-->
</section>
<section class="footnotes" epub:type="footnotes">
<hr />
<ol>
<li id="fn1" epub:type="footnote"><p>“Windows Azure Storage: A Highly Available Cloud Storage Service with Strong Consistency,” <a href="https://sigops.org/s/conferences/sosp/2011/current/2011-Cascais/printable/11-calder.pdf" class="uri">https://sigops.org/s/conferences/sosp/2011/current/2011-Cascais/printable/11-calder.pdf</a><a href="#fnref1" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p></li>
<li id="fn2" epub:type="footnote"><p>“Azure Data Explorer: a big data analytics cloud platform optimized for interactive, ad-hoc queries over structured, semi-structured and unstructured data,” <a href="https://azure.microsoft.com/mediahandler/files/resourcefiles/azure-data-explorer/Azure_Data_Explorer_white_paper.pdf" class="uri">https://azure.microsoft.com/mediahandler/files/resourcefiles/azure-data-explorer/Azure_Data_Explorer_white_paper.pdf</a><a href="#fnref2" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p></li>
<li id="fn3" epub:type="footnote"><p>If you are new to reading papers, use the three-pass approach by S. Keshav, see “How to Read a Paper,” <a href="https://web.stanford.edu/class/ee384m/Handouts/HowtoReadPaper.pdf" class="uri">https://web.stanford.edu/class/ee384m/Handouts/HowtoReadPaper.pdf</a><a href="#fnref3" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p></li>
<li id="fn4" epub:type="footnote"><p>“Designing Data-Intensive Applications,” <a href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/1449373321" class="uri">https://www.amazon.com/dp/1449373321</a><a href="#fnref4" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p></li>
<li id="fn5" epub:type="footnote"><p>“System Design Interview,” <a href="https://www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B08CMF2CQF" class="uri">https://www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B08CMF2CQF</a><a href="#fnref5" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p></li>
<li id="fn6" epub:type="footnote"><p>roberto@understandingdistributed.systems<a href="#fnref6" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p></li>
</ol>
</section>
</body>
</html>
